Collaborative plans, innovation keys to circular RMG industry: stakeholders 

 Stakeholders at a programme on Sunday said that collaborative strategies and innovation were keys to unlocking Bangladesh’s circular apparel industry for availing a significant opportunity for the country to reduce its environmental impact, improve its economic performance and create social benefits.

The readymade garment sector in Bangladesh is under a transformative journey towards circularity, but embracing circularity also poses certain challenges that must be collectively considered and resolved, they said.

A panel of industry leaders, policymakers and experts in circular economies made the comments at an event titled ‘Switch to Upstream Circularity Dialogue: Pre-consumer Textile Waste in Bangladesh’ at the Amari Hotel in Dhaka on Sunday.

The event was organised under the Switch to Circular Economy Value Chains project (SWITCH2CE), co-funded by the European Union and the government of Finland.

Parliamentary standing committee on the ministry of environment, forest and climate change chairman Saber Hossain Chowdhury was present in the opening session as chief guest.

Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association president Faruque Hassan spoke at the opening session as special guest.

Deputy head of European Union to Bangladesh delegation mission Bernd Spanier, SWITCH2CE chief technical adviser Mark Draeck, among others, also contributed to the event’s opening session.

Hilde van Duijn, head of Global Value Chains, Circle Economy, also participated in the event and made circular game demonstration.

Faruque Hassan said, ‘Living in a world in our time where climate is most threatened, business as usual is no more an option. In a race to zero emission and resource decoupling, circularity emerges as the “next normal” linking business and sustainable development. For the BGMEA, circularity sits in the core of our values, mission and vision. Our goal is to help conserve the natural eco-system as much as possible via an economic shift from a linear to circular system, while generating greater social and economic values.’

Mark Draeck said, ‘With the support of the European Union and the government of Finland, UNIDO leads the global Switch to Circular Economy Value Chains project.’

‘In Bangladesh, we support the circular transition for the textile and garments industry, by piloting innovative circular solutions in close cooperation with global and national industry leaders, which as BESTSELLER, H&M and their manufacturers,’ he said.

‘These pilots will address acute challenges on new technology, business models and traceability, and will demonstrate the economic opportunity for circular approaches.

The project also collaborates with government partners, academia, and NGOs to create an enabling environment for circularity through policy and tailored capacity building,’ he added.