Climate change protesters hoping to ‘shut down’ Congressional Baseball Game 


Climate change protesters are hoping to “shut down” the annual Congressional Baseball Game on Wednesday night.

Youth-led activist group Climate Defiance plans to protest at the north gate of Nationals Park and “shut” the game down, Evan Drukker-Schardl, an organizer for the group, told The Hill.

“This game is an important kind of illustration of what’s wrong with our politics and our political elite that’s destroying our planet,” Drukker-Schardl said. “We’re not going to let this celebration of corporate political corruption go unchallenged.”

The organization, established in March 2023, also led a plan to blockade the White House Correspondents’ Dinner nearly two months ago.

(Excerpt) Read more at thehill.com ...

I hope the FBI has their Far Left, DemonRAT, Red Flag, No Sale Gun list up to date. Those fags normally shoot at Republicans playing baseball.

Tonight is beautiful weather for evening baseball

these punks have never experienced being punched in the face or even been in a fight. About time for them to experience the pain derived from above

Here’s hoping Rs have the edginess to throw brushbacks, go in spikes high to second or third base, do a Pete Rose bowlover of catcher, or my favorite as first baseman- glove slap to the face to runner diving back to first on pickoff attempt.

About time they start sending messages

I thought this game was an annual fundraiser for DC youth summer sports programs. Liberals are so stupid.

Why don’t the Reps just forfeit like they do on everything else

That’s because they’re driven by emotions, not reason and they lack the ability to think rationally.

Just shoot at them. It worked the last time.

He is a professional troublemaker. He has never held an honest job.

Treat him accordingly.

They want to wait until the 9th inning when they have a 10-run lead - then they will forfeit.

LOL !

Concede the game and brag about how they will win next time.

Or actually fluke out a win, but hand the trophy to the Dems anyway.

He's not wrong. But his conclusion is incorrect.

The Wealthy Liberal Elite is controlling our political system right now. And they have Hollywood, Big Tech, Wall Street, Mainstream Media, Elite Universities and of course, the "Deep State".

Why don’t the Congressional Members work on projects they are paid for instead of playing games on Taxpayers nickel?

either of those work

highly likely

Sounds like it

bloody them and they will think twice
