Denmark to Punish Farmers for Cow ‘Emissions’ to ‘Fight Global Warming’ 

 by Frank Bergman, Slay News:

The Danish government has introduced radical new laws that will tax livestock farmers for “emissions” from cows, pigs, and sheep to supposedly “fight global warming.”

Demark has become the first country in the world to introduce a carbon tax that seeks to force farmers to comply with the goals of the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) “Net Zero” agenda.

The Scandinavian nation will tax farmers for the so-called “greenhouse gases” allegedly emitted by their livestock from 2030.


Denmark’s globalist leaders claim they are targeting a major source of methane emissions, which they allege is one of the most potent gases contributing to “global warming.”

In order to comply with the WEF’s “Net Zero” targets, Taxation Minister Jeppe Bruus said the aim is to reduce Danish “greenhouse gas emissions” by 70% from 1990 levels by 2030.

As of 2030, Danish livestock farmers will be taxed $43 per ton of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2030.

The tax will increase to $108 by 2035.

However, because of an income tax deduction of 60%, the actual cost per ton will start at $17.3 and increase to $28 by 2035.

Although carbon dioxide is typically blamed for causing “climate change,” globalists claim that methane traps about 87 times more heat on a 20-year timescale.

However, as Slay News has previously reported, top scientists have debunked these claims as a hoax.

A recent peer-reviewed study provided conclusive scientific evidence proving that carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions in Earth’s atmosphere cannot cause “global warming.”

Dr. Jan Kubicki led a group of world-renowned Polish scientists to study the impact of increases in CO2 emissions on the Earth’s global temperatures.

However, not only did they find that higher levels of CO2 made no difference, but they also proved that it simply isn’t possible for increases in carbon dioxide to cause temperatures to rise.

Kubicki and his team recently published three papers which all conclude that Earth’s atmosphere is already “saturated” with carbon dioxide.

This saturation means that, even at greatly increased levels of CO2, the “greenhouse gas” will not cause temperatures to rise.

Nevertheless, unelected globalists at the United Nations Environment Program claim that livestock accounts for about 32% of “human-caused methane emissions.”

“We will take a big step closer in becoming climate neutral in 2045,” Bruus said.