Climate Activists to be Charged After Blockade in Melbourne CBD 

 Climate change protesters have been arrested in Melbourne, Victoria after they staged another blockade, this time at the busy Flinders Street Station.

Over 30 climate activists refused to move off the road at the intersection of Flinders and Swanston Streets on March 16. This followed a protest of hundreds of activists who marched from Treasury Gardens to Flinders Street Station in the city later in the afternoon.

The activists were heard yelling, “People power, power to the people,” and, “This is civil disobedience in action.”

“Doing it for the kids I love,” and, “Climate crisis,” were among the signs and banners waved by the group of protesters.

“Free Palestine” signs were also seen among the climate emergency signs displayed on Melbourne streets.

Meanwhile, police arrested 32 people who remained on the runway, and 27 of them will be charged on summons with obstruction of the road.

Police had warned rally organisers who wanted to avoid arrest to leave the intersection, The Age reported.

A spokesperson for Victorian Police told The Epoch Times they attended the planned rally and say about 300 people were there.

“A number of protesters remained at the intersection of Flinders and Swanston Streets after being told to move on by police,” the police said. “32 protesters remained on the roadway and were subsequently arrested. 27 of those protesters will be charged on summons with obstruction of a road.

“Five of those protesters needed to be carried from the roadway by police, four will be charged with intentional obstruction of an emergency worker, and summary hinder police, and bailed to Melbourne Magistrates Court. One will be charged on summons with intentional obstruction of an emergency worker and summary hinder police.”

Extinction Rebellion Victoria posted multiple videos showing footage of the event on March 17.

Multiple Protests Throughout the WeekDuring the week, Extinction Rebellion held multiple “disrupt the city” protests in the city.

“We rebel on the unceded lands of the peoples of the Kulin Nation. Always was, always will be,” the group claimed.

Police were forced to move activists to the footpath on March 13 after they allegedly blocked traffic on LaTrobe and Bourke Streets.

“We are non-violent protesters—we would never resort to violence because we creating the world that we want to see.”

However, the Victorian Police said they respect the right to peacefully protest.

Incident Follows Perth Climate ProtestIn late February, a climate change activist was arrested, and multiple others were issued move-on notices, at a protest against a major Woodside gas project.

The activists were seen holding signs including “oil and gas collapse,” “climate action now,” and “Woodside ecocide blood on your hands,” gathered outside the company’s headquarters in Perth.

Police were seen placing handcuffs on an individual on the road in front of the company’s building on Feb. 20.

This rally was timed to coincide with Prime Minister Anthony Albanese travelling to Perth for three days to discuss the economy, cost of living, and housing at a Federal Cabinet meeting.

Commenting on the incident, a police spokesperson confirmed with The Epoch Times that one person had been charged with obstructing the carriageway.

The individual received a summons to appear in court at a later date. Five move-on notices were also delivered by the police.