Energy giant Centrica is prepared to do the right thing, small beer though it looks 

 Energy giant Centrica is prepared to do the right thing, small beer though it looks

Hope on bills

AT last one energy giant is prepared to do the right thing, small beer though it looks.

Centrica’s grants of £250 to £750 for customers least able to pay their monstrous new gas bills are welcome.

But they still won’t make much of a dent.

No surprise there when the firm is donating only ten per cent of the profits from its British Gas arm.

That’s a negligible fraction of Centrica’s soaring total: £1.34billion in just six months this year.

It can do so much more.

Read More on Energy Bills

But at least it is doing something.

More than can be said of Shell and BP, making scandalously vast war profits since Putin strangled the oil supply.

Those who still oppose the windfall tax in these truly exceptional circumstances should think again.

Most read in Opinion

Bar Russians

WHY should Russians be free to holiday in Britain, or Italy, or the South of France?

We and the EU should ban new visas now.

No, it’s not fair on those opposed to Putin.

But many of them fled Russia months or years ago.

Depressing surveys show huge support among the remaining population for Putin’s genocide.

It is delusional to imagine those are all inaccurate.

Ordinary Russians seem mostly behind wiping Ukraine and its people off the map.

Our Defence Secretary Ben Wallace wants only to tighten visa rules to bar the families of oligarchs and Kremlin goons.

But we should go further, as Ukraine’s President Zelensky says.

Russians who can prove they have publicly opposed Putin can request asylum.

The rest must know they are not welcome to travel to Europe while their country is still butchering its neighbour.

We must do everything we can to turn them against their murderous dictator.

Block heads

BRITAIN is being suffocated by a culture of obstructionism which stops anything getting done while simultaneously seeking to regulate our lives and crush pleasure.

Thanks to NIMBYs, we can’t build enough homes or power plants, nor approve a single reservoir, nor extract shale gas crucial to our energy security.

The Lib Dems are shamefully proud to champion all campaigners against progress.

Similarly, in Whitehall, their left-liberal civil service soulmates enjoy thwarting any radical ideas for change.

Meanwhile the same group obsessively plot to dictate what ordinary people can eat and drink — and even whether to allow us a harmless flutter.

A new “study”, funded by your money, urges a ban on gambling ads and sponsorship — plus intrusive checks on punters’ bank accounts.

Why? Because a truly tiny proportion of the population, 0.2 per cent and falling, is addicted.

READ MORE SUN STORIES

Read More on The Sun

The new PM must defund nanny-state meddlers and confront NIMBYs head-on.

They are all paralysing British life.