Molotov Cocktail Attack On Russian Embassy In Moldova On Last Day Of Election 

 Molotov Cocktail Attack On Russian Embassy In Moldova On Last Day Of Election

Sunday is the final day of three days of presidential elections in Russia. Yulia Navalnaya, the wife of deceased opposition activist Alexei Navalny, is urging mass protests against President Putin as he stands of the verge of winning another six year term as president, an outcome quite obvious to all observers. She's calling on Russians to disrupt the final day of voting in what's been dubbed "noon against Putin".

While some sporadic minor incidents at polling stations have been reported, there has been a major incident in the small country of Moldova which borders Ukraine. Moldovan police have detained a man who attacked the Russian embassy with two Molotov cocktails as voting was underway there.

"A man threw two containers of flammable substances over the fence of the Russian Embassy in Chisinau," police said in a statement. A 54-year-old Moldovan who described himself as also having Russian citizenship was immediately detained after after hurling the Molotov cocktails.

There were no reports of injuries or damage to the embassy, and police said an investigation is ongoing. "He justified his action by some dissatisfaction he has with the actions of the Russian authorities," authorities said.

Moldova has been scene of controversy and friction especially after Russia allowed the opening of several polling stations in breakaway Transnistria, which the Moldovan government has fiercely protested.

Reuters noted days ago that "A senior official in ex-Soviet Moldova said on Wednesday Moscow was breaking laws by printing ballot papers in the separatist region of Transnistria ahead of this week's Russian presidential election."

"Moldova's pro-European authorities have already summoned the Russian ambassador to complain about a decision to open six polling stations in the pro-Russian enclave," the report continued. "The central government said the move broke an agreement to allow voting only at a single polling station at the Russian embassy in Chisinau."

The United States recently become more vocal in defending Moldova's territorial integrity, and has condemned what the Biden administration has called Moscow's 'interference' in the Eastern European nation's sovereignty.

Last summer, Moldova expelled 45 Russian diplomats and embassy staff members from the country "over numerous unfriendly actions" as tensions reached near breaking point over the war in neighboring Ukraine and the Transnistria issue. As for Russia's election, Kremlin authorities have said Ukraine is engaged in cross-border attacks on polling stations and in annexed regions of Ukraine.