Make no mistake – the West wanted Russia to invade the Ukraine. 

 Make no mistake - the West wanted Russia to invade the Ukraine.

Make no mistake - the West wanted Russia to invade the Ukraine.

They goaded Russia into it deliberately, then abandoned Ukraine for all intents and purposes.

It’s part of their plan to bring the entire world down so they can build it up again in their image.

Russia is going to attack the USA.

Again, this is what the West wants.

The entire show fits in with their demonic vaccination operation.

The Russian attack will finish what the vaccinations and the sanctions started

This is the work of mad people.

This is the work of Satan.

The West represents human civilization at its peak.

And war is part of the plan to reverse that.

Putin has stated that being cut off from Swift is equivalent to a nuclear attack.

The consequence of which must entail a retaliatory nuclear attack.

That is the conclusion we must read into that statement.

Part of the reason for attacking Ukraine was to get rid of the nazis and junkies.

The USA is the symbolic embodiment of both.

The problem for Russia is the Antichrist not Biden.

He it is who is behind the vaccinations, degeneracy, economic implosion, religious sellout and finally nuclear war.

If I am aware of him I’m sure, as Prince Charles of England has hinted, others are aware of him as well.

Not sure but I believe most Western leaders are as well, having signed up to the genocide via voluntary injection.

His next objective is mandatory injection and for that they need sprawling camp detentions everywhere.

Once detained these people will be subjected to torture then killed as they do not fit into their plans.

Western leaders have already fallen and unless they are forcefully replaced by the popular vote they are the central core of the satanic plan unfolding like clockwork.

However by taking out the USA, the rest of Europe will fold to Putin and the tough threats will not be ignored and the Antichrist will be defeated.

America will still survive but it will be freed from demonic entrapment with the intent to enslavement.

It will again become a light to the world for the Statue of Liberty was and always will be a symbol of that light.

Anyone can join.

Anyone can contribute.

Anyone can become informed about their world.

"United We Stand" Click Here To Create Your Personal Citizen Journalist Account Today, Be Sure To Invite Your Friends.

Humic & Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral Complex

HerbAnomic’s Humic and Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral Complex is a revolutionary new Humic and Fulvic Acid Complex designed to support your body at the cellular level. Our product has been thoroughly tested by an ISO/IEC Certified Lab for toxins and Heavy metals as well as for trace mineral content. We KNOW we have NO lead, arsenic, mercury, aluminum etc. in our Formula.

This Humic & Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral complex has high trace levels of naturally occurring Humic and Fulvic Acids as well as high trace levels of Zinc, Iron, Magnesium, Molybdenum, Potassium and more. There is a wide range of up to 70 trace minerals which occur naturally in our Complex at varying levels. We Choose to list the 8 substances which occur in higher trace levels on our supplement panel. We don’t claim a high number of minerals as other Humic and Fulvic Supplements do and leave you to guess which elements you’ll be getting.

Order Your Humic Fulvic for Your Family by Clicking on this Link, or the Banner Below.

Our Formula is an exceptional value compared to other Humic Fulvic Minerals because...

It’s OXYGENATED

It Always Tests at 9.5+ pH

Preservative and Chemical Free

Allergen Free

Comes From a Pure, Unpolluted, Organic Source

Is an Excellent Source for Trace Minerals

Is From Whole, Prehisoric Plant Based Origin Material With Ionic Minerals and Constituents

Highly Conductive/Full of Extra Electrons

Is a Full Spectrum Complex

Our Humic and Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral Complex has Minerals, Amino Acids, Poly Electrolytes, Phytochemicals, Polyphenols, Bioflavonoids and Trace Vitamins included with the Humic and Fulvic Acid. Our Source material is high in these constituents, where other manufacturers use inferior materials.

Try Our Humic and Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral Complex today. Be 100% Satisfied or Receive a Full Money Back Guarantee. Order Yours Today by Following This Link.

the statue of liberty ..a useless pile of fictitious junk.. not much in the way of freedom anymore …amerika (west)representing the peak of human achievement .. we have been going rapidly backward since the sixties .. the peak was over decades ago

The statue of Liberty… the only liberty that monstrosity represents is that of the LBGTQ abortionists.

One thing is becoming pretty clear… the USA needs to do some house-cleaning and smartish. Every time you turn over a rock there are the US intelligence agency’s and their proxies.