Nato in talks to deploy more nuclear weapons amid the growing threat posed by Russia and China - as top Ukrainian security chief warns Putin could firebomb Kyiv with tactical nukes if facing a 'catastrophic defeat' 

 Nato in talks to deploy more nuclear weapons amid the growing threat posed by Russia and China - as top Ukrainian security chief warns Putin could firebomb Kyiv with tactical nukes if facing a 'catastrophic defeat'

Nato might deploy more nuclear weapons amid an increasing threat posed by Russia and China, according to the head of the alliance.

Jens Stoltenberg, the 13th secretary general of Nato, revealed there were live discussions among members about removing missiles from storage and putting them on standby to act as a deterrent.

Speaking to The Telegraph, Mr Stoltenberg said: 'I won't go into operational details about how many nuclear warheads should be operational and which should be stored, but we need to consult on these issues. That's exactly what we're doing.'

It comes as the head of Kyiv's national security council said Putin could demand a tactical nuclear weapon be used if Russia's army is beaten in Ukraine.

Oleksandr Lytvynenko made the comments after G7 leaders warned any use by Russia of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons would be met with 'severe consequences', The Times reported.

Jens Stoltenberg (pictured), the 13th secretary general of NATO, revealed there were live discussions among members about removing missiles from storage and putting them on standby

A Netherlands' Air Force F-16 jetfighter takes part in the NATO exercise as part of the NATO Air Policing mission

The head of Kyiv 's national security council said Putin could demand a tactical nuclear weapon be used if Russia's army is beaten in Ukraine

Russian soldiers load a Iskander-M short-range ballistic missile launchers at a firing position as part of Russian military drill intended to train the troops in using tactical nuclear weapons

Meanwhile, Mr Stoltenberg warned in Brussels of the threat from China, adding that nuclear transparency should form the basis of Nato's nuclear strategy to prepare the alliance for the dangers of the world.

'Nato's aim is, of course, a world without nuclear weapons, but as long as nuclear weapons exist, we will remain a nuclear alliance, because a world where Russia, China and North Korea have nuclear weapons, and Nato does not, is a more dangerous world,' he said.

Mr Stoltenberg claimed that China is heavily investing in modern weaponry, which includes its nuclear arsenal, which the secretary general said would increase to 1,000 possibly by 2030.

He insisted the US and its European allies are modernising their nuclear deterrent as a result of heightened threat from Russia.

'The US is modernising their gravity bombs for the nuclear warheads they have in Europe and European allies are modernising the planes which are going to be dedicated to Nato's nuclear mission,' he said.

It comes as Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky yesterday accused Russia of not wanting peace, after Putin said he would only accept a ceasefire if Ukraine agreed to halt its NATO ascension plans.

Zelensky made the accusation at the end of a major diplomatic summit in Switzerland, which more than 90 countries attended, making it the largest gathering in support of Ukraine since the start of the invasion.

The conference saw the vast majority of the 90 nations who attended sign a communique in support of Ukraine sovereignty, and also called for Putin to return children stolen during the invasion.