BIOWARFARE ON AMERICANS: RFK Jr. says CIA was directly involved in funding COVID research for Wuhan lab 

 by Ethan Huff, Natural News:

The reason why the Biden regime could not care less about even attempting to punish communist China for covering up the “lab leak” that many believe occurred at the Wuhan Institute of Virology, allowing the Wuhan coronavirus (COVID-19) to escape, is because doing so would expose the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and its bioweapons program.

These and other statements were made by 2024 presidential hopeful Robert F. Kennedy Jr. in a recent interview with Fox News‘ Jesse Watters. Kennedy suggested that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is also involved in funding the bioweapons programs from which COVID appears to have originated.

TRUTH LIVES on at https://sgtreport.tv/

“I think the CIA was involved certainly in this research,” Kennedy told Watters and viewers. “They were funding it through USAID. And NIH, I think, in the end gave about $26 million in funding to the Wuhan lab. But USAID, which was functioning as the CIA surrogate, gave over $64 million. The Pentagon also gave a lot of money.”

Kennedy would go on in the interview to blast Tony Fauci, the former head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), for his complicity in unleashing hell on the world that resulted in tens of millions of needless deaths.

“I think he caused a lot of injury,” Kennedy, who wrote an entire book about the subject, said of Fauci. “I think that he particularly, by withholding early treatment from Americans, we racked up the highest death count in the world. We only have 4.2 percent of the globe’s population but we had 16 percent of the COVID deaths in this country and that was from bad policy.”

RFK Jr. says vaccines do, in fact, cause autism

Unlike the United States, many other countries allowed their citizens to access tried-and-true remedies for coronaviruses such as ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), both of which were maligned or even banned in the U.S. as “fake news.”

“There were countries that did the opposite of what we did that provided ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, other early treatments to their population, and had 1/200th of our death rate,” Kennedy said.

Concerning the subject of vaccines, Kennedy clarified for Watters and viewers his longtime position that poison jabs do, in fact, cause autism – though that does not necessarily mean that he opposes vaccines being legal, just so long as sound science is able to back them.

“I do believe that autism comes from vaccines,” Kennedy revealed. “But I think most of the things people believe about my opinions about vaccines are wrong. I, you know, all I have said about vaccines is we should have good science.”

“We should have the same kind of testing, placebo-controlled trials that we have for every other medication. Vaccines are exempt from pre-licensing placebo-controlled trials. There’s no way that anybody can tell the risk profile of those products or even the relative benefits of those products before they’re mandated, and we should have that kind of testing.”

Be sure to watch the interview with Kennedy below:

One commenter noted that he agrees with Kennedy in that COVID was “cultivated” and “intentionally released at just the right time, one year before a U.S. presidential election.”

“It was perfect timing for Biden’s campaign to use it against Trump while they were working hard in the background to hide all of Biden’s corruption,” this person added. “I think they are also funding labs in Ukraine as well. That and NATO membership is one of the biggest reasons Russia invaded.”