The World Needs Peacemaker Trump Again 

 by Jeff Crouere, The Liberty Daily:

The world is in total chaos after 39 months of the Biden presidency. The southern border of our country is porous and millions of individuals from around the world have descended on our country.

These “undocumented migrants” include terrorists, drug dealers, and intelligence agents of countries such as our enemy, China. It should alarm every American that 22,233 Chinese nationals have illegally entered the United States since the beginning of the fiscal year in October. If this rate continues, this year’s total will easily top the 24,125 Chinese nationals who illegally entered the country last year.

TRUTH LIVES on at https://sgtreport.tv/

There has been an astounding 6,300% increase in the number of Chinese nationals illegally entering the country in the last few years. Since China is a communist nation, these individuals are not freely traveling to the United States for a “better life.” U.S. Senator Roger Marshall (R-KS) believes the influx is due to “the direction of the CCP (Chinese Communist Party)” and it involves “espionage” as well as “stealing military and economic secrets.”

Last year, China sent a spy balloon over our country, and it was not shot down until it completed its trek across many states. In addition, Chinese investors are buying American farmland for nefarious reasons, and it was confirmed that China operated “police stations” in the United States to monitor their citizens in our country.

China is constantly threatening Taiwan and its other neighbors while building up its military forces. Their proxy state, North Korea, has started regularly testing long-range ballistic missiles that concern their neighboring countries.

Ukraine is in the third year of a bitter war with Russia. Last year, a United States report estimated that the total number of injuries and deaths in the war neared 500,000. There is no end in sight to the war as no peace talks are planned and the United States Congress is on the verge of allocating more military aid to Ukraine.

On October 7, Israel was invaded by Hamas resulting in the death of 1,200 innocent people. It was the deadliest attack on Israel since its founding in 1948. Hamas abducted over 240 hostages and 129 have not been returned home. These hostages either remain in captivity or are already deceased.

As Israel has responded to the Hamas invasion by sending military forces into Gaza, many Democrats have been critical. Sadly, innocent civilians have been killed in the conflict, but how can a nation survive with a terrorist organization operating on its border?

To further strengthen their security, on April 1, Israel bombed the Iranian embassy in Damascus, Syria. Among the seven officials killed in the airstrike were Iranian Brig. Gen. Mohammad Reza Zahedi, who helped plan the October 7 massacre in Israel.

To retaliate for this strike, Iran launched over 300 drones and missiles into Israel on Saturday. Fortunately, almost all the strikes were intercepted by Israeli forces, with help from the United States, Jordan, and other countries.

As the world waits to see if Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will respond to this attack, the Iranians are continuing to issue threats. In an interview on their state TV network, Iranian Major General Mohammad Bagheri said, “Our response will be much larger than tonight’s military action if Israel retaliates against Iran.”

It is being widely reported by Axios, CNN, and other media outlets that President Joe Biden is urging Netanyahu not to respond and, if he does, the United States will not be involved. This response is disturbing to U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), who believes the world is witnessing the most dangerous period for the Middle East since 1973. He said, “What I don’t understand is why Joe Biden and the administration would leak to the media the contents of a conversation in which he tells Netanyahu he doesn’t think that Netanyahu should respond at all. It is the continuing part of the public game they are playing which frankly encourages Iran and Hezbollah.”

Biden has also encouraged Iran by relaxing our economic sanctions, which allowed additional oil revenue to flow into their coffers. This led to their renewed financial support for terrorist organizations like Hamas. Without Iran’s generous backing, Hamas would not have been able to launch their deadly October 7 attack against Israel.

Not content to allow Iran to prosper from oil sales, Biden also released $16 billion in funds for Iran, partially for the return of six American hostages. Terror regimes should never be rewarded for taking hostages, but this is exactly what happened by the Biden administration’s unwise decision.

As the world deals with multiple international wars and unprecedented chaos in the Middle East, it is useful to remember what was happening when Donald Trump was our President.

Read More @ TheLibertyDaily.com