"Russia does not feel threatened": Estonian Prime Minister calls for long-range missiles to be transferred to Ukraine 

 Currency

"Russia does not feel threatened": Estonian Prime Minister calls for long-range missiles to be transferred to Ukraine

Western countries should provide the Armed Forces of Ukraine with all the weapons they need to liberate all the territories seized by Russia. First of all, Kyiv needs to be provided with long-range missiles.

This was the call to the West made by Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas in an interview with The Kyiv Independent published on Sunday, January 14. In her opinion, this is the only way to repel the aggressor country.

The head of the Estonian government reminded that Tallinn had officially decided to provide Kyiv with annual aid of 0.25% of its GDP over the next 4 years. She called on partners and allies to make the same decision.

Kallas said that the joint budgets of the countries that are members of the Ramstein format contact group on Ukraine's defense are "much larger" than Russia's budget.

"Every month, Moscow spends about 5.3 billion euros on the war. If we take the total budgets and this 0.25% of the GDP of all the states of the Ramstein coalition, it will be 120 billion. Such assistance would turn the tide in Ukraine's favor. The partners should provide Kyiv with all the military equipment they have," said the Estonian prime minister.

The absence of long-range weapons in the Ukrainian army gives the Russian occupation forces an advantage to seize more territories, Kallas noted.

"If they (Russians - Ed.) think they can win, then of course they don't feel threatened and just keep hitting Ukraine," the official said.

She also added that some Western countries are afraid that Moscow will lose and what consequences it will have. According to Kallas, the main task now is to end the war.

Speaking in the Estonian parliament on January 11, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that Ukraine must win the battle against Russia because it is about the survival of the Ukrainian people.

As OBOZ.UA previously reported, the head of state called on the West to strengthen support for Ukraine. He emphasized that the Armed Forces of Ukraine need more shells, and they will move forward.

Only verified information is available on OBOZ.UA Telegram channel and Viber. Do not fall for fakes!