The Threat from the Kremlin’s Foolish, Never-ending, “limited military operation” in Ukraine continues to Rise 

 Putin’s unwillingness to use sufficient force to end a conflict that should not have lasted one week is leading to much wider war.

NATO at the summit in Vilnius is likely to approve plans to increase the number of troops in a state of high alert to 300,000, as well as other changes in the military structure, said Secretary General Stoltenberg.

Plans to increase the number of its rapid reaction forces to more than 300 thousand. people from 40,000. Stoltenberg said in June 2022. He noted that this will take place within the framework of the implementation of new regional plans.

In May, Stoltenberg said that these plans would be described as a bloc to deter and protect NATO allies from any aggression: they contain precise demands for the transformation of the armed forces, including their deployment. The Secretary General also announced more Allied exercises, bringing more forces into combat readiness, strengthening the command structure and control in the alliance.

As reported in March, the increase in the number of the military may imply the emergence of two echelons. The first will be 100,000. soldiers ready to be sent within ten days. The second echelon is reinforcements, that is, the military sent for support, they will have to be ready for the transfer within 10-30 days.

The Spanish El Pais reported in May that the bloc was finalizing a common strategy to counter the threat from Russia and terrorism. This strategy, according to sources of the publication, is changing NATO’s approaches to deploying forces in different regions and responding to threats from Moscow.

Подробнее на РБК:

https://www.rbc.ru/politics/14/06/2023/6489e6f39a794778d61881b4

The picture of widening war is beginning to form:

Professor Sergey Karaganov, honorary chairman of Russia’s Council on Foreign and Defense Policy, and academic supervisor at the School of International Economics and Foreign Affairs Higher School of Economics (HSE) in Moscow Sergey Karaganov: By using its nuclear weapons, Russia could save humanity from a global catastrophe

A tough but necessary decision would likely force the West to back off, enabling an earlier end to the Ukraine crisis and preventing it from expanding to other states

Karaganov’s description of the Western World as “anti-human ideologies: the denial of family, homeland, history, love between men and women, faith, service to higher ideals, everything that is human,” shows a rising realization that Russia sees itself confronted by a Satanic force that must be destroyed.