The Ukraine War, How the British Derailed Peace 

 The Ukraine War, How the British Derailed Peace

BATTLEFORWORLD.COM | November 25, 2023: Ex-Pentagon analyst revealed that the West refused to support the Ukraine-Russia peace talks and is now seeking a way out.

The leader of the Servant of the People faction in the Ukrainian parliament, Davyd Arakhamia, disclosed that the March 2022 Russian-Ukrainian peace talks was a no go because then UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson brought the negotiations to zero, to have Ukraine continue the conflict. And to pressure the Kiev regime, that was when the “Bucha massacre” appeared at the appropriate time to derailed the peace talks that was ongoing in Turkey.

The Bucha massacre was later debunked by Russia as a hoax, but the damage was already done to smear Russia on the world stage, to which the UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson continued along pushing the war stroking the conflict as various countries kept on supplying all sorts of weapons.

According to Arakhamia, the Russians were willing to end the conflict if Ukraine was to agree to neutrality and provide guarantees to not join NATO. Arakhamia referenced an interview he gave to Ukrainian TV channel 1+1, saying: “When we returned from Istanbul, Boris Johnson came to Kiev and said: ‘We won’t sign anything with them at all, and let’s just fight’.”

Continue at BATTLEFORWORLD.COM

(In the Silent Revolution Of Truth, Compilation Edition, Volume 4, the free PDF book: Download and read: Zelensky Secretly Becomes an Oligarch, page 110. Zelensky Perpetuates the War and Murders in Ukraine, page 119. Zelensky is Running a NAZI-Style NAZI Regency in Kiev, page 147. Zelensky Inciting Enemies of the Jews Against the Jews, page 164. Neo-Nazis in Germany to Supply Zelensky with Weapons Against Russia, page 268. When Those Of The Northern Pole Are United Together, page 10. Note: Use the page number display located at top right to find the correct page. Free Book, PDF Format – Links: Book Summary | and Download Volume 4 Book)

(In the Silent Revolution Of Truth, Compilation Edition, Volume 7, the free PDF book: Download and read: The Creation-Energy Teaching, repetition is necessary, for the basic Creation-Energy knowledge and understanding to breakthrough, page I-1. See what happens during the death of the body, our rest and rebirth (Note: first time presented in history), page 61. The Twelve Recommendations/Commandments, page 140. A Prayer Written by Jmmanuel / Immanuel / Emmanuel (- the ORIGINAL PARYER), pages 16 – 17. The Human with a Part-Piece of the Creation-Energy, page 89. Note: Use the page number display located at top right to find the correct page. Free Book, PDF Format – Links: Book Summary | and Download Volume 7 Book)

Boris Johnson and Zelensky.

END

Anyone can join.

Anyone can contribute.

Anyone can become informed about their world.

"United We Stand" Click Here To Create Your Personal Citizen Journalist Account Today, Be Sure To Invite Your Friends.

Humic & Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral Complex

HerbAnomic’s Humic and Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral Complex is a revolutionary new Humic and Fulvic Acid Complex designed to support your body at the cellular level. Our product has been thoroughly tested by an ISO/IEC Certified Lab for toxins and Heavy metals as well as for trace mineral content. We KNOW we have NO lead, arsenic, mercury, aluminum etc. in our Formula.

This Humic & Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral complex has high trace levels of naturally occurring Humic and Fulvic Acids as well as high trace levels of Zinc, Iron, Magnesium, Molybdenum, Potassium and more. There is a wide range of up to 70 trace minerals which occur naturally in our Complex at varying levels. We Choose to list the 8 substances which occur in higher trace levels on our supplement panel. We don’t claim a high number of minerals as other Humic and Fulvic Supplements do and leave you to guess which elements you’ll be getting.

Order Your Humic Fulvic for Your Family by Clicking on this Link, or the Banner Below.

Our Formula is an exceptional value compared to other Humic Fulvic Minerals because...

It’s OXYGENATED

It Always Tests at 9.5+ pH

Preservative and Chemical Free

Allergen Free

Comes From a Pure, Unpolluted, Organic Source

Is an Excellent Source for Trace Minerals

Is From Whole, Prehisoric Plant Based Origin Material With Ionic Minerals and Constituents

Highly Conductive/Full of Extra Electrons

Is a Full Spectrum Complex

Our Humic and Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral Complex has Minerals, Amino Acids, Poly Electrolytes, Phytochemicals, Polyphenols, Bioflavonoids and Trace Vitamins included with the Humic and Fulvic Acid. Our Source material is high in these constituents, where other manufacturers use inferior materials.

Try Our Humic and Fulvic Liquid Trace Mineral Complex today. Be 100% Satisfied or Receive a Full Money Back Guarantee. Order Yours Today by Following This Link.