Terrifying moment flesh-melting ‘thermite bombs’ that burn to the bone rain down on Ukrainian town 

 THIS is the horrifying moment Russia appeared to unleash flesh-melting "thermite bombs" on a Ukrainian town.

Terrifying footage shows the night sky in Marinka lit up by a chilling rain of sparkling, burning thermite - a killer chemical mixture.

The video, taken through a smashed window by someone sheltering inside a building, shows a huge area of the town in the Donetsk region being showered with the horror bombs.

Ukrainian journalists shared the video on Twitter - describing it as the "scariest footage of thermite shelling" they had ever seen.

Marinka is on the frontline of Putin's war in Ukraine as Moscow tries to gain control of the Donbas region - made up of the Luhansk and Donetsk provinces.

Thermite, a mixture of metal powder and metal oxide, is used in the making of incendiary bombs.

Read more on the Ukraine war

It burns at temperatures of more than 2,400C - being so hot it can burn through steel and concrete.

And if it comes into contact with human flesh, it can melt through right down to the bone.

Human Rights Watch previously warned the deadly weapon can cause extremely painful burns on the human skin and can lead to respiratory problems.

The bombs use is significantly dangerous as their wide area of range means they cannot be contained on the battlefield - and its effects could hit civilians.

Most read in News

The killer weapons were used during the Second World War.

The use of thermite as an incendiary weapon is nowadays considered a war crime.

Its use was banned by the third protocol of the 1980 UN Convention on Conventional Weapons in Geneva.

Russia was previously accused of using phosphorus bombs in its effort to take over the Mariupol steel plant Azovstal in May this year.

Dramatic footage showed a Russian missile detonating mid-air above the plant with flaming explosives dropping down.

Ukrainian officials claimed the clip showed Russian forces dropping 9M22S incendiary and phosphorus bombs on the steelworks.

Read More on The Sun

Russia was also accused of using the killer weapons after footage emerged allegedly showing white phosphorous burning fiercely on the ground in the eastern city of Kramatorsk.

White phosphorous causes injuries and death by burning deep into the tissue, being inhaled as smoke and being ingested.