Zinchenko recalls heartbreaking moment wife sobbed as Russia invaded Ukraine as Arsenal star says he WOULD join fight 

 ARSENAL star Oleksandr Zinchenko has recalled the harrowing moment Russia began the invasion of his home country Ukraine.

The Gunners full-back has spoken passionately in the past about the war and the toll it has had on him and his nation as a whole.

Russian president Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine in February 2022.

Now, nearly 18 months on from the beginning of the conflict, Zinchenko has spoken about his memories of how it started.

Speaking on Piers Morgan Uncensored, he said: "My wife suddenly woke me up. And she said, ‘It started’. I said ‘What started?’ She was crying, you know, like flooding tears.

"I said 'What’s started, what’s wrong?' And she showed me the pictures of this invasion."

READ MORE ON ARSENAL

Discussing his family and friends in Ukraine, he went on to add: "I'm so worried about them. And I'll tell you what - the mentality of people they don't want to leave, they don't want to leave the country, even if they could.

"This is their homeland. And I would for sure, after [my] football career, I will be living in Ukraine, that's for sure. One million percent.

"I was there one week ago and as soon as I passed the border it's just my homeland, my place."

Arsenal man Zinchenko also stated he would fight for his country on the front line - much like fellow sports stars Wladimir Klitschko, Oleksandr Usyk and Vasyl Lomachenko.

Most read in Football

He said: "There will be a time everyone will be there. It will be the last call or something or whatever. It will be a call.

"We go, all of us, we go there. Everyone will go. Of course [I would fight]. But at the same time I am thinking I am much more helpful from here at the moment.

"But you never know what is going to happen. Maybe this is the last speech we are going to speak to each other. You never know.

"And how many people have already been killed by this invasion? I’m not seeing myself hiding somewhere."