EN_UA_021270.txt	URW: Discrediting Ukraine	URW: Discrediting Ukraine: Situation in Ukraine is hopeless	Article quoting Ukrainian officials, and indirectly arguing that situation in Ukraine is hopeless with the West having doubts in Ukraine's success. Ukrainian contradictions are highlighted in order to frame Ukraine as having no real options.
EN_UA_027676.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	URW: Amplifying war-related fears: There is a real possibility that nuclear weapons will be employed	The text has several paragraphs underlining the potential use of nuclear weapons by Russia both in the context of Ukraine war as well as in a global scenario.
EN_UA_017310.txt	URW: Overpraising the West	URW: Overpraising the West: The West belongs in the right side of history	The text presents several paragraphs underlining that Wester countries helping Ukraine and NATO have the moral authority to help Ukraine to fight Russia.
EN_CC_100005.txt	CC: Criticism of climate movement	none	The article talks about climate activists attacking artworks in Norway to protest oil and gas supply from Norway to Europe. The author uses keywords such as "vandals", "barbarians", and "fanatics" to describe those activists.
EN_UA_008586.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	none	The text criticises the West and the US using several arguments, among which the corruption of Western elites as well as the system that is incompatible with freedom and thus support for Russia is the conflict is justified.
EN_UA_014637.txt	URW: Speculating war outcomes	URW: Speculating war outcomes: Russian army is collapsing	The text conveys a narrative depicting negatively the Russian military. Indeed, several paragraphs mention the fact that HIV positive prisoners are recruited to fight in Ukraine. This allows speculations about the bad state of the army which would be forced to adopt people not fit for the war.
EN_UA_019640.txt	URW: Praise of Russia	URW: Praise of Russia: Russia has international support from a number of countries and people	Multiple paragraphs within the text present alleged evidence that Russia has the support of other countries such China which both want to expand economic collaborations as well as consider the West as the geopolitcal adversary
EN_UA_022051.txt	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader: The West are the aggressors	Within the text, several paragraphs accuse the West allies of Ukraine of provoking Russia, both providing weapons to Ukrainian army as well as allegedly already having troops on Ukrainian soil. Moreover, fears of an expansion of the conflict are mentioned multiple times.
EN_UA_025165.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: West is tired of Ukraine	The text presents multiple paragraphs in which Western allies of Ukraine are blamed for not providing enough military. More specifically, the US is accused of playing internal political games at the expense of Ukraine's attempt to defend itself from Russia
EN_UA_100840.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	none	The text has several paragraphs suggesting that there can be an escalation related to the Ukraine-Russia war. Indeed, these paragraphs underline how Russia could attack other countries such as the US and neighboring states, as well as using nuclear weapons
EN_UA_000923.txt	URW: Speculating war outcomes	none	The text has multiple paragraphs stressing the danger of a potential excalation of the situation in Ukraine on a global scale
EN_CC_100095.txt	CC: Criticism of climate movement	CC: Criticism of climate movement: Ad hominem attacks on key activists	The text criticises climate activism, especially targeting the figure of Greta Thunber and accusing her of crimes as well as alarmist claims
EN_CC_100106.txt	CC: Criticism of climate movement	none	The text presents multiple paragraphs in which climate activists such as Al Gore are accused of alarmist predictions that revealed to be false. In doing so, the text discredits the climate movement, suggesting that behind it there are the so-called global elites
EN_UA_026697.txt	URW: Distrust towards Media	URW: Distrust towards Media: Western media is an instrument of propaganda	The text conveys a sense of distrust of Western media since they try to juxtapose the assassination attempt against Fico and russian interference in Slovakian elections.
EN_UA_103732.txt	URW: Discrediting Ukraine	URW: Discrediting Ukraine: Discrediting Ukrainian government and officials and policies	Article presenting quotes and arguments discrediting Zelensky, claiming is unfit for the role of leader of Ukraine, especially in the field of foreign policy.
EN_UA_002668.txt	URW: Speculating war outcomes	URW: Speculating war outcomes: Russian army is collapsing	Multiple passages present a situation in which the Russian military is described as struggling or even failing to reach its goals, fostering the idea that the occupied territories can be even lost soon
EN_UA_025652.txt	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader: The West are the aggressors	The text conveys a narrative in wich the US and Western countries are posing a threat to Russia. According to this narrative, diplomatic resolutions are therefore undermined
EN_CC_100076.txt	CC: Criticism of climate movement	none	The author accuses Reuters of being incompetent due to failing to fact-check the climate-related story.
EN_UA_013710.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	none	Article aims at discrediting ICC, and claiming it is infuenced by US pressure by highlighting alledgedf past cases of fake 'orphan' rescue operation. It aims to use a historical example to disredit ICC and the West/US in light of ICC arrest warant for Vladimir Putin.
EN_UA_024847.txt	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader: The West are the aggressors	The text suggests that the sabotage of the nord stream pipeline was conceived and operated by Western countries and Ukraine, providing alleged evidence such as the declaration of informed individuals and journalists.
EN_UA_015443.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: West is tired of Ukraine	The text presents several paragraphs in which Ukraine's allies are depicted as weak or reluctant to provide further military help. These claims are justified by the upcoming US elections as well as the fact there are no enough funds.
EN_CC_100047.txt	CC: Criticism of climate movement	CC: Criticism of climate movement: Ad hominem attacks on key activists	The author says that climate movement is a scam because elites teach us about climate responsibility while using private jets.
EN_CC_100004.txt	CC: Controversy about green technologies	none	The article talks about how TESLA is not reliable as it needs frequent maintenance which is actually worse for the environment, and how costly it is.
EN_UA_023008.txt	URW: Distrust towards Media	URW: Distrust towards Media: Western media is an instrument of propaganda	Several, attacks and alleged misrepresentations of Tucker Carson's interview of Vladimir Putin are used to discredit the Western media and expose their bias anti-Russia.
EN_UA_103011.txt	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities	none	The text presents some paragraphs criticising the government of the UK for some energy policies as well as attack some political factions
EN_CC_100037.txt	CC: Downplaying climate change	none	The text conveys a narrative downplaying climate change arguing that there is a lack of scientific evidence and predictions happened to be false. Moreover, the impact of Co2 is questioned or even considered beneficial for the environment
EN_UA_025764.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	none	The text criticise Western countries in several passages. It blames the US and France for enacting dangerous military and geostrategic strategies, while also depicting Ukraine as the exploited victim serving the West's interests
EN_UA_012611.txt	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader: The West are the aggressors	Article presenting quotes Russian official responses to the Nordstream pipeline explosions, framing the US as perpetrators of the attack and ultimately responsible for infringing on the security of the whole Eurasia.
EN_UA_102990.txt	URW: Distrust towards Media	URW: Distrust towards Media: Western media is an instrument of propaganda	Several paragraphs attempt to discredit Western media accusing them of being an instrument of propaganda which covers the alleged dangerous military actions of Ukraine, such as the destruction of the Noca Kakovka dam
EN_UA_013617.txt	URW: Praise of Russia	URW: Praise of Russia: Russia has international support from a number of countries and people	The text has several paragraphs criticising international institutions considered part of the Western world as hypocritical. and adopting double standards. Also, the US and the West are described as Russophobic as well as attempting to damage Russia and other countries such as China, Saudi Arabia.
EN_UA_024050.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: The West is weak	The article is about how Germany tries to instigate war with Russia despite publicly admitted that its military force is in horrible condition. The article emphasies how ironic it is that while having such incompetent military, Germany
EN_UA_016466.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	none	Several paragraphs suggest that if NATO continues to be a threat to Russia, the consequences will be the expansion of the War in Ukraine to other states, the potential use of atomic weapons. Western countries are depicted as the aggressors as well as morally decadent.
EN_UA_023816.txt	URW: Discrediting Ukraine	URW: Discrediting Ukraine: Ukraine is a puppet of the West	By quoting several Russian officials, the text adopts a Russian view of Ukraine's battlefield situation, claiming that it is Western personel and equipment that fight in Ukraine. The text adopts an overall view that the West has used Ukraine to inflict damage on Russia.
EN_UA_101805.txt	URW: Hidden plots by secret schemes of powerful groups	none	The text presents multiple paragraphs spreading conspiracy theories involving satanic plans, Ukraine, and vaccinations. The West and the US are accused of favoring this plan
EN_CC_100000.txt	CC: Controversy about green technologies	none	The text attacks the US government for the implementation of climate related-policies which would provide the so-called fake meat to the US military, underlining that promiment public figures are disagreeing with it.
EN_UA_026142.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	URW: Amplifying war-related fears: There is a real possibility that nuclear weapons will be employed	The text conveys a sense of fear that nuclear war is imminent since Western countries are irresponsibly escalating conflicts to a nuclear confrontation with Russia and China.
EN_CC_200007.txt	CC: Criticism of climate policies	none	The text criticises climate policies about electric vehicles underlining the negative impact on the US economy. It argues that the market of EVs isn't big enough to substitute vehicles with combustion engines.
EN_UA_022339.txt	URW: Speculating war outcomes	URW: Speculating war outcomes: Ukrainian army is collapsing	Article claiming through Putins statements that Ukrainian military has failed and is in a state of collapse, highlighting several examples of Ukraine's incompetence and submission to West's interests.
EN_CC_100069.txt	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities: Criticism of national governments	The article talks about the UK paying developing countries reparations for the climate damage they experienced due to the UK's actions that harm the climate. The author is vividly calling it "nonsense".
EN_UA_029053.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: The West is weak	The text criticise Western countries supporting Ukraine in multiple passages. The main argument is that Ukraine suffered the consequences of the limitations imposed by Western countries in using weapons on Russian soil.
EN_UA_015962.txt	URW: Speculating war outcomes	URW: Speculating war outcomes: Russian army is collapsing	The text presents a difficult situation for Russian troops that have to face a military incursion in Russian territories. Several paragraphs depict the situation as uncertain and confused, indicating that Russian military is struggling to control the situation.
EN_UA_013344.txt	URW: Hidden plots by secret schemes of powerful groups	none	The whole text fosters the narrative of Putin using doubles, speculating on the reasons. Paragraphs address the health of Vladimir Putin as well as the stability of the Russian government mentioning conspiracy theories.
EN_UA_104859.txt	URW: Discrediting Ukraine	URW: Discrediting Ukraine: Ukraine is a hub for criminal activities	The text present multiple paragraphs accusing Ukraine of criminal and terrorist activites against Russia, including the assassination of Daria Dugina, the Crocus Hall attack, and the sabotage of Nord Stream 2. It also accuses the US secret services of financing these activities.
EN_UA_004209.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	URW: Amplifying war-related fears: There is a real possibility that nuclear weapons will be employed	Article quoting Putin and Russian officials, claiming that they have the power to produce nuclear strikes in Western territory. The article aims to fearmonger by using detailed descriptions of Russian nuclear capabilities while keeping a writing style akin to reporting.
EN_UA_003579.txt	URW: Negative Consequences for the West	URW: Negative Consequences for the West: Sanctions imposed by Western countries will backfire	Article presenting various sources and arguments over the negative effects of Western sanctions to the food supply chain claiming it will produce poverty to the West but also to poor and middle countries as well.
EN_UA_027879.txt	URW: Discrediting Ukraine	URW: Discrediting Ukraine: Discrediting Ukrainian government and officials and policies	Multiple passages depict Zelensky as an illegitimate leader which is taking unpopular decisions. His consent is described as decreasing in relation to the negative situation of the Ukrainian military as well as the withdrawal of Western allies' support.
EN_UA_008072.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	URW: Amplifying war-related fears: There is a real possibility that nuclear weapons will be employed	Article quoting Putin's statements that highlight the possibility of use of nuclear weapons provoking fear. In the course of the text, a reporting style is used that ultimately highlights Russian leadership's failings by reporting on Western officials quotes.
EN_UA_029155.txt	URW: Discrediting Ukraine	URW: Discrediting Ukraine: Discrediting Ukrainian government and officials and policies	Several paragraphs report that behind the sabotage of the Nord Stream 2 there are the Ukrainian military and officials. The attempt to discredit Ukraine relies on declarations made by alleged officials of Western countries.
EN_UA_001032.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: Diplomacy does/will not work	The article reports a series of military events regarding the invasion of Russia. Towards the end, the failure of the Minsk agreement is attributed as the principal failure for the decision of Russia to invade.
EN_UA_104152.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	URW: Amplifying war-related fears: NATO should/will directly intervene	The text repeatedly suggest that a confrontation between NATO and Russia will happen sooner or later. According to the text, the confrontation would be the outcome of NATO's support to Ukraine as well
EN_CC_100066.txt	CC: Criticism of climate policies	CC: Criticism of climate policies: Climate policies are only for profit	The text presents multiple paragraphs arguing that climate policies such as the Carbon Management are only favoring oil companies, allowing them to make profit while at the same time not effectively tackle pollution and CO2 emissions
EN_UA_017831.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: The West does not care about Ukraine, only about its interests	Throughout several paragraphs, the text conveys a narrative depicting the US public opinion as divided when it comes to discuss military help to Ukraine. In doing so, Mike Pence is criticised for caring more about Ukraine rather than showing concern for the socio-economical problems affecting the US
EN_UA_104434.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	URW: Amplifying war-related fears: There is a real possibility that nuclear weapons will be employed	Multiple passages of the text suggest that Russia will use nuclear weapons against NATO countries if there will be an escalation in relation to Ukraine. Vladimir Putin's quote are mentioned to foster this narrative as well as speculations are made about a nuclear attack
EN_UA_102415.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: Diplomacy does/will not work	The text has several paragraphs arguing that diplomatic efforts are undermined by Western countries such as the UK, which obstructed peace talks between Russian and Ukraine in order to continue the conflict
EN_UA_014829.txt	URW: Distrust towards Media	URW: Distrust towards Media: Western media is an instrument of propaganda	The text criticise Western media for not investigating the explosion of Nord Stream and silencing the alleged evidence of the direct US involvement in the sabotage.
EN_CC_100038.txt	CC: Questioning the measurements and science	CC: Questioning the measurements and science: Methodologies/metrics used are unreliable/faulty	The text question the scientific reliabilities of studies addressing climate change. Several paragraphs claim alleged scientific incongruences of papers which were mentioned and adopted by the Fed
EN_UA_102892.txt	URW: Distrust towards Media	URW: Distrust towards Media: Western media is an instrument of propaganda	The text conveys a narrative praising Russia, its military, Vladimir Putin and blaming Western media. Several paragraphs address these points directly, while others do it in a more indirect way since they criticise and underline the weakness of Western countries and their help to Ukraine, pointing out their excessive anti-Russian rhetoric.
EN_CC_200013.txt	CC: Criticism of climate policies	CC: Criticism of climate policies: Climate policies are ineffective	Within the context of the US, the text criticises climate policies promoted by Joe Biden's administration for being infeffective and weak. According to the text, they would allow car manufacturers to produce polluting vehicles since the regulations are too soft.
EN_CC_100123.txt	CC: Questioning the measurements and science	CC: Questioning the measurements and science: Scientific community is unreliable	The text questions the reliability of studies reporting the negative effects of climate change. More specifically, they criticise a study claiming that diseases such as the Dengue will return to the UK as based on no evidence and being alarmist.
EN_UA_103025.txt	CC: Criticism of climate policies	CC: Criticism of climate policies: Climate policies have negative impact on the economy	Several paragraphs question climate policies arguing that they will have a detrimental impact on the US economy. As an evidence, the EU green deal is mentioned as not working, as well as criticism is exrpessed towards Biden's administration
EN_UA_100868.txt	URW: Hidden plots by secret schemes of powerful groups	none	The text presents some paragraphs in which conspiracy theories related to the WEF are associated with the War in Ukraine
EN_UA_100210.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	URW: Amplifying war-related fears: There is a real possibility that nuclear weapons will be employed	The text presents multiple paragraphs in which Ukraine is accused to plan the use of unconventional nuclear devices against Russia. These accusations convey a depiction of the Ukranian government as criminals and extremists
EN_CC_200021.txt	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities: Criticism of political organizations and figures	The article reports about New Your City's mayor's initiative to control the amount of meat people consume. The author calls the mayor incompetent person who goes after people's meat and wants to make everyone vegan forcefeully.
EN_UA_028520.txt	URW: Overpraising the West	URW: Overpraising the West: The West belongs in the right side of history	The text presents a paragraph in which the EU and the West are described as doing the right thing in supporting Ukraine
EN_CC_100050.txt	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities: Criticism of international entities	The author calls the UN a tyrant, saying that it is eager to wage war on farmers by trying to ban meant.
EN_CC_100003.txt	CC: Criticism of climate movement	CC: Criticism of climate movement: Ad hominem attacks on key activists	The text criticises promiment climate activists such as Jane Fonda within the context of Canada's situation, accusing here of not being properly informed and acting in a wrong way.
EN_UA_100411.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: The West does not care about Ukraine, only about its interests	The text has some paragraphs depicting the US and the West as profiting from the situation in Ukraine, especially thanks to the reconstructions plans. In doing so, they negatively mention what the US has done in Iraq
EN_UA_021872.txt	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader: The West are the aggressors	Several paragraphs depict Western countries as posing a threat to Russia. This aspect is underlined by the declarations of Russian officials in relation to the intensification of Finnish border security.
EN_UA_021123.txt	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy	URW: Discrediting the West, Diplomacy: West is tired of Ukraine	The text presents a narrative depicting the Ukraine's Western allies as withdrawing their support, suggesting that they prioritize their interests according the evolving geopolitical scenario
EN_UA_102054.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	none	throughout the text, it is suggested that Russia will use chemical weapons in Ukraine, ampifying the fear of the use of unconventional dangerous weapons
EN_UA_012234.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	URW: Amplifying war-related fears: Russia will also attack other countries	Several quotes from Russian TV presenters are quoted calling for nuclear attack on London, provoking fear of escalation. Russian position is subsequently framed as weak and isolated.
EN_CC_100024.txt	CC: Criticism of climate policies	CC: Criticism of climate policies: Climate policies are only for profit	The text has several paragraphs criticising climate policies within the US economic context since they are considered an instrument to make profit which companies. These companies would allegedly have deals with the Biden administration
EN_CC_200009.txt	CC: Criticism of climate movement	CC: Criticism of climate movement: Climate movement is corrupt	The text attacks climate activists for hypocritically ignoring the issues generated by the EVs' industry. Specific prominent activists are mentioned, blaming them for living luxurious lives in the West while poor countries are exploited. Overall, green technologies are criticised for being just a another way for companies to make profit.
EN_UA_010909.txt	URW: Russia is the Victim	none	The text presents several paragraphs suggesting that Russia is wrongly accused by Western countries for being responsible of the downing of the MH17 flight. Russia is depicted as the victim, suggesting a russophobic intention driving the accusers
EN_UA_103168.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	none	Multiple paragraphs amplify the fear of a cyber attack against the US by Russia. According to the text, these attacks can happen anytime.
EN_CC_200012.txt	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities: Criticism of national governments	The text attacks Western national governments for repressing and adopting harsh measures against climate activism, pointing out an hypocritical attitude since often the same governments promote climate initiatives in non-Western countries
EN_CC_100012.txt	CC: Hidden plots by secret schemes of powerful groups	CC: Hidden plots by secret schemes of powerful groups: Blaming global elites	The text constantly mentions an alleged secret plan to reduce the white global population perpetrated by the WEF and unspecified global elites. These actors are accused of other conspiracy theories throughout the text as well.
EN_UA_012803.txt	URW: Speculating war outcomes	none	Several paragraphs indicate an imminent collapse of Russian government with coup in the Kremlin to remove Putin from the leadership of the country
EN_CC_200016.txt	CC: Criticism of climate movement	none	The text presents several paragraphs in which climate activists are attacked. They are accused of being extremists attempting to disrupt public events in the US. The text also uses strong emotional words and suggests that these people should be eliminated violently
EN_UA_104523.txt	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader: The West are the aggressors	Throughout the text, Western countries, and specifically the US, are blamed for being the aggressors withing the context of the Ukraine-Russia conflict. The US are accused of being behind the alleged coup happened in 2014, arguing that President Obama had the plan to attack Russia
EN_UA_011260.txt	URW: Discrediting Ukraine	none	Throughout all the text, Ukraine is discredited as threatening Russian-speaking population, having a criminal government, and implement ethnic cleansing in its territories. This is accomplished through the use of one-sided reporting that gradually takes opinion form accusing Ukraine and Western allies of being the aggressors.
EN_CC_100124.txt	CC: Downplaying climate change	CC: Downplaying climate change: Ice is not melting	The text conveys a narrative claiming that glaciers are not melting. In doing so, they present alleged evidence discrediting climate movement, labeling some prominent figures as alarmist and being in bad faith
EN_CC_100002.txt	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities	CC: Criticism of institutions and authorities: Criticism of national governments	The article talks about the resistance movement against Climate Con Programme initiated by the UK government. The article does not really specify what the residents are specifically resisting, as the article does not give insights into this programme.
EN_UA_101079.txt	URW: Negative Consequences for the West	URW: Negative Consequences for the West: Sanctions imposed by Western countries will backfire	The text presents multiple paragraphs in which sanctions are considered detrimental for EU countries, specifically pointing out the case of Germany
EN_CC_200022.txt	CC: Questioning the measurements and science	CC: Questioning the measurements and science: Greenhouse effect/carbon dioxide do not drive climate change	The author argues that CO2 has no effect on the rise of temperature and it is a myth. The author targets Danish government who has introduced law that will tax livestock farmers for emissions from cows.
EN_UA_013257.txt	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader: The West are the aggressors	The text presents several passages that together convey a narrative in which Russia's decision to invade Ukraine is justified by the the fact that the West attempted to undermine security of Russia, fostering terrorism, economic instability, nazism, and organizing a coup in Ukraine in 2014.
EN_UA_102958.txt	URW: Amplifying war-related fears	none	In some paragraphs, the text conveys a narrative emphasizing the dangers related to the war in Ukraine, especially the potential use of unconventional weapons, the huge casualties, and the nuclear option
EN_UA_027787.txt	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader	URW: Blaming the war on others rather than the invader: The West are the aggressors	Throughout several paragraphs, the text suggests that the US is responsible for military attacks on Russian territories, arguing that the US are directly involved in the conflict.
